In this video, we're going to have a look
at how the any and all functions can be
useful, when used with a comprehension
or generator expression. So let's start by
creating a new python file, and we'll
go with calling this one
anycomprehension.py. So for the first
example, let's say we're writing an email
client in Python. I'm going to start on
the first line - I'm typing from data
import people basic plants underscore list, or
underscore plants underscore list, and as
well as plants underscore list. So as I
mentioned, we're going to assume we're
writing an email client in Python. We've
allowed the user to choose the people
who receive the email from a contacts
database, maybe. The user wants to send
the email and the first thing we might
want to do is check that all the people
have an email address. If they do we can
attempt to send the email. If they don't
we let the user edit the list of
recipients. To do that we need to check
the second field of each of the people.
We can create a list containing that
field by using a list comprehension. So
let's go ahead and do that. So on line
3 I'm going to type if all
parentheses square bracket person
left square bracket 1 right
square bracket space and its for
person in people, then we're closing
right square bracket there, right
parenthesis and then a colon. Then print
parentheses double quote Sending email,
closing double quote closing parenthesis.
Then on the next line, we'll go back into
an else colon, and print on the line
after that, double quotes in parentheses
User must edit the list of recipients,
double quote right curly brace, or right
parenthesis, I should say. So the
all function will return true if all of the
email addresses aren't empty, false if one
or more of them are empty. So if we run
the program now,
you can see the user must edit the list
of recipients, and that's exactly what we
want, or returns false because a
couple of the people are missing an email
address. If we go back to our data dot
py, and you can see that Eric Idle on
line 6 and Michael Palin on line 9
haven't got email addresses, which
is consistent with our code failing,
or returning false I should say, for that
reason. So as you can see, using all is
much simpler than iterating over the
list, checking each email address. Another
advantage of all, and any too for that
matter, is that they short-circuit the
evaluation of the iterable. As soon as
the result is known,
they stop checking any more values. In
the case of all, it can return false as
soon as the false value is found. In the
case of any, it can return true as soon
as a true value is found.
Remember that gotcha from a few videos
ago, though? The code will fail if the
list is empty, and we can see that by
setting it to empty before using it.
So we come back up to here, and on line
3, I type people equals and left
and right square brackets to create an empty
list, and if we run this code again now,
Sending email, as you can see there.
And by the way, just ignore this warning over
here: Redeclared 'people' defined above
without usage. We're only
changing people here to save modifying
data.py, but again, you can see
that wasn't what we wanted when we had an
empty list here, defined. Our email
program would attempt to send the email
to an empty list of recipients and clearly,
that's not what we'd want to do. So we
either need a separate test or we can
combine them, using the bool function. So
if I modify line 5, and in fact, change
that to if - and we'll have a test at the
start first - if bool person and, and then
all and as we had it before,
so basically, adding that second test.
That should've been people not person,
and if we run this again now, "User must
edit the list of recipients. So that works
by adding a separate test, and just to
confirm if that works now, we can
actually comment out this line 3, when we
created an empty list and run it again,
and that still works with the actual
valid data. So always test what are
called edge cases. Things like values
being 0 or negative, lists and
dictionaries being empty, values that are
far greater than you'd expect, things like
that. Making sure that your code handles
invalid data is the difference
between an OK program and a great one. Alright,
so for an example of using any, let's assume
we're working on a shopping site that
sells selections of plant seeds. The
site's created some variety packs to
make it easier for customers to choose. So
instead of clicking on loads of
individual seed packets, the site makes
it easy for them to just specify some
likes and dislikes, and offer some packs
that fit what they want. So one of the
options is grass. If you're a gardener,
you'll know that there's some lovely
grasses that can enhance a garden, but
some people don't want to plant grasses.
So what we can do here is, we can use any
to check if the plants in a variety
pack contain at least one plant that's a
grass. So I'm going to add this code
after the last example.
So on line 10, I can type if any
parentheses square bracket plant dot
plant underscore type is equal to, two equals
double quotes grass and then a space
there, then for plant in plants
underscore list. Then we're going to have right
square bracket right parenthesis and a
colon. Then we can type print parentheses
double quotes, this pack, This pack
contains grass, closing double quote and
parenthesis. Then introduce an else
and in the else case we'll actually print no
grasses in this pack and close it off. So
when we run that now,
you can see we've got this message down the
bottom left hand corner, "This pack
contains grass". So we can see that this
pack does in fact contain at least
one grass type. The comprehension in this
example, creates a list containing true
or false, depending on whether the
condition's true for each plant in the
list. Using a name tuple, I think and I'm
sure you'll agree, makes the code
more readable and saves us having to check
the index position of plant underscore
type in the tuple. Alright, so you can
do the same thing with a
dictionary instead and that's going to make a good
challenge. Now just before I actually
start the challenge though, the challenge
is, it's going to involve a dictionary,
as I mentioned, so I need
to change the definitions up here. So I'm
going to do that, I'm going to delete
that basic underscore plants underscore
list and instead what we're going to
do is import as the third import, our
plants underscore dict because we'll
need that for the challenge. Alright so
let's look at the challenge. The challenge is
to use any and a comprehension, or
generator expression if you prefer, to
check the plants in plants underscore
dict to see if there are any grasses in
there. So you want to do that first and
then run your code again after that,
searching for cactus to test that it
still works when there aren't any.
Alright so that's the challenge. Pause the
video. When you're ready to come back
through my solution, come back and we'll
go through that, so pause the video now.
Alright so welcome back.
Hopefully, you managed to get that solved. Let's go
through and I'm going to show you the
solution, and I'll add that just after
the examples we've been working
through in this video. I'm going to start on line
15 by typing if any parentheses plant
dot plant underscore type, that's equals
to double quotes grass, capital G, for
plant in plants underscore dict dot
values then parentheses and a right
parenthesis to close it off and a colon.
So that's the case - we're going to print
parentheses double quotes This dict
contains grasses, else colon on the next
line, print on the line after that,
parentheses double quotes No grasses
in the dict. So what I've done there, I've used
a generator expression to save memory.
Because we're dealing with a dictionary,
the generator expression iterates over
the dictionaries values view, as you can
see over here
on line 15, and checks the plant
underscore type field of each value. So
if we run that to make sure it works,
and we can see that the dict contains
grasses. Now you may have iterated over
the keys instead, and that would also work
fine - that's another way of doing it.
So let's have a look at how to do
that, and there we'll start, we'll
start on line 20; if any plants
underscore dict left square bracket key
right square bracket dot plant
underscore type, that's equal to Grass,
and then for key in plants underscore
dict. So that's the alternative way
of doing it. Again iterating over the
keys, and everything else will,
effectively, be the same after that. We
can just copy the same three lines there,
and if we run that, we get the same
output, as you can see there. So the code's
a little bit less readable, but may
perform better than iterating over the
values view. If you, if you think that's
likely to be an issue in your particular
application, you can test the performance
of both methods. We saw how to do that, of
course, in an earlier video in this
section of the course. Alright, so lastly,
let's change the last generator
expression to check for cactus instead,
just to make sure that it's working
and there is what we're looking for, and also
when there isn't. So we can go ahead and
just change Grass there to Cactus.
Change the output, run the program, and you
can see there's now cactii in the dict.
Remember to test if there's an empty
dictionary as well. It does work -
any behaves as expected with an
empty interable, but really you should
still test it anyway. Alright, so that's
the any and all functions. They're very
easy to use and can be extremely
useful. So I'm going to finish this section
now with a quick look at lambdas. Now
that's something else that Guido doesn't
like but they can have their uses. So
I'll see you in the next video.